DOC: Proofread wireguard.rst (#1784)
vyos/vyos-documentation: docs/configuration/interfaces/wireguard.rst

:lastproofread: 2026-03-02

.. _wireguard:

#########
WireGuard
#########

WireGuard is an extremely simple, fast, and modern VPN that utilizes 
state-of-the-art cryptography. See https://www.wireguard.com for more
information.

****************
Site-to-site VPN
****************

The following diagram illustrates a site-to-site VPN setup.

.. figure:: /_static/images/wireguard_site2site_diagram.jpg

********
Keypairs
********

> WireGuard requires the generation of a keypair, which includes a **private** key 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WireGuard requires a keypair, which includes a **private** key 
```

I think it's clearer with fewer words. Also, if the user already has a key pair, they will not need to generate one.

Author: Corrected.

.. opcmd:: generate pki wireguard key-pair install interface <interface>

   Generate a keypair and output the private key assignment command for the 
   specified interface.

   .. code-block:: none

     vyos@vyos:~$ generate pki wireguard key-pair install interface wg10
     "generate" CLI command executed from operational level.

>      Generated private-key is not stored to CLI, use configure mode commands to install key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Generated private key is not automatically added to the VyOS configuration, use the following configuration mode commands to install key:
```

"Private key" is a normal noun here, not a config option. The proper term for the modes are "operational mode" and "configuration mode". Data is stored in the config, since the CLI (Command Line Interface) is just an interface to the config.

Author: Corrected.

     set interfaces wireguard wg10 private-key '4Krkv8h6NkAYMMaBWI957yYDJDMvj9URTHstdlOcDU0='

     Corresponding public-key to use on peer system is: 'UxDsYT6EnpTIOKUzvMlw2p0sNOKQvFxEdSVrnNrX1Ro='

>    .. note:: If you invoke this command from configuration mode with the run 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. note:: If you invoke this command from configuration mode with the ``run`` 
```

`run` is a CLI keyword and must be marked as such.

Author: Corrected.

     Pre-shared key: +LuaZ8W6DjsDFJFX3jJzoNqrsXHhvq08JztM9z8LHCs=

   .. note:: If you invoke this command from configuration mode with the run 
      prefix, the generated key is automatically assigned to the specified peer. 

***********************
Interface configuration
***********************

The next step is to configure your local WireGuard interface and define the 
networks you want to tunnel (``allowed-ips``). 

If your system only initiates connections, specifying the listen port is 
optional. If your system accepts incoming connections, you must define a port 
for peers to connect to. Otherwise, WireGuard selects a random port at each 

> reboot, which may block peer connections due to firewall rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reboot, and that may break your peers' ability to connect if that port is not enabled in your firewall rules.
```
